---
layout: post
title:  "Preface"
date:   2024-10-15
categories: book
TOC_order: 0
copyright: "Copyright © 2024-2025, P. L. Chiu. All Rights Reserved."
---
Why visualize data? Perhaps you like to see data visually rather than as a bunch of numbers or a table. Or that you enjoy creating aesthetically pleasing visualizations. Or you have a need to study some data and to make figures for science, journalism, or advocacy.

The intended readers of this book are students young and old. It is suitable for students who are interested in creating data visualizations, who want to exercise their coding skills, and have a sense of curiosity and a desire to see things for themselves. Geared for beginners or someone with a beginner's mindset, our approach is exploratory and iterative. We will work through some interesting examples with real-world data. Along the way we will encounter typical issues for handling and visualizing the data, for which we will apply useful techniques to address them. To maintain a good flow, this book avoids being overburdened with too much information about all the design alternatives or all the features of a particular software library. It can be read cover-to-cover as a guided tour of selected topics in data visualization, or used for self-study by following along the exposition, running the code in the examples, and doing the exercises.

For teachers, this book can provide content and resources for lessons in visualization, data science, and programming. For practicioners, who would likely prefer a more comprehensive and terse treatment, the real-world data examples and the starred exercises might still be of interest.

As a brief overview, we will use Python Turtle for drawing freeform data visualizations, as well as Pyplot and Matplotlib for plotting basic design patterns and constructing more complex figures. Pandas will be used for data wrangling. And GeoPandas will be used for geospatial visualization.

The prerequisites include a minimal amount of experience with programming in Python, which may be learned from the many available tutorials or books. There are dependencies among the chapters, as some later parts build on ideas or techniques covered earlier in the book. An appendix provides information for installing Python and the required libraries. The notes and references section provides further details and resources.
